you've probably heard of 1up card if you
haven't it's a retro video game cleaning
system from one up car.com
I'll put a link in the description it's
supposed to clean your video games and
your video game systems better than
q-tips or any other method well I picked
up their variety pack so I'm going to
give it a shot so the variety pack
includes everything they sell we got
several 1up cards
bottle of isopropyl alcohol an NES
cartridge for cleaning the system Super
NES cartridge for cleaning system and a
Genesis cartridge cleaning the system we
also got a little kind of an instruction
card here me a little instructions on
this card and they're also on the back
of the 1up cards themselves you set the
set these aside and our we're done with
them what you got here is it's kind of a
foam pad it's not real soft it's stiff
there's some give to it but so it's got
this kind of scrubby thing on it it's
kind of like the green side of a kitchen
sponge right here and what you're
supposed to do is you're supposed to wet
down one side of it clean the game and
then kind of buff it with the dry side
so well let's uh let's see how that
works on so I went through all my
cartridge games and I found the dirtiest
ones from each system that I have so I
got NES Master System Genesis and
intellivision
now as you can see these are pretty
dirty there may got a little corrosion
on there and who and who knows what else
you know half these I got used you know
and and the ones I bought new are twenty
years old so so let's get to cleaning
these things huh
so what we're supposed to do is wet down
one side one pad on the card and just
put it in here rub back and forth so it
dirty
it looks like the pad looks dirty now
then do it on the other side
oh yeah that's definitely getting dirt
off you can see that so I don't think
I've ever cleaned this one so let's do
it a little simply only that's
interesting if you kinda know if you can
see the pad the pad is the same height
as the the edge of the the board there
so that it doesn't overhang the board at
all
this card is flimsy you know it feels
like it might break I think I could
break this pretty easy it's like I'd
like it to be not not that flimsy I
could like it a little stiffer I can
make me feel a little better
okay well now we've rubbed a wet side
now we polish with the dry side
it seems to be getting a little dirty
also this is supposed to dry it and just
put a final polish so all right well
that's done
we'll come back to this see how well it
did we'll try the master system
supposedly if we're doing a lot at once
that fits in real easy we don't have to
rewedding after every single game or
anything and we also should be able to
get I can't remember how much they said
but a few dozen should be able to clean
a few dozen games with one card they
said that the dirt gets pulled down into
the pad and doesn't get put back on to
the games now this the pet Agana
are know if you're gonna phone game
let's show this this one the pad is just
a little bit bigger than the edge of the
Master System game that's right though
cards fit in pretty easy you know I I'm
not having to stuff them in or anything
this one wasn't too bad actually
so I think I'll just you know when I'm
sitting it is dirty on the on the grass
I'd pretty well and all these games
worked none of these games failed to
work I I checked them before and they
all they all functioned before I started
cleaning them okay that's that's pretty
much dry rogue rash again it's it's not
a lot of edge coming out on the Genesis
cartridge so the pad is hanging over
which is fine little tighter on this
side of the different oh I guess bottom
side of the Genesis cartridge little
tighter seems to be getting cleaner just
from what I could see look in here I
don't know if this shows up on camera
but seems to be getting cleaner we'll
take them apart a little later when I'm
all done here you get a good look at it
rubbing off the instructions on the back
there
I don't like how flimsy this card feels
I feel like I'm it could break really
easy after a few uses and unlike that
that's pretty well clean so in
television a lot of a lot of room to
come back and forth here I think I might
try up-and-down me where this well if
it's down there again it's um it's wide
enough the pad is wide enough that's
covering the entire edge connector there
now one thing about the Intellivision
games they're not centered in the
cartridge a little offset so I wonder if
I'm going to be able to get this oh man
I can't get that in coming here look at
the center oh I got it in but man I have
to stuff it in there it's this is a
tight fit on the Intellivision game here
if I just crank it back and forth I got
I do not like health in this card as I
don't feel I got as much leverage as I
could get if it was a little stiffer I
just kind of rock it back and forth like
this seems to be getting a lot of it
it's kind of starting to come apart here
spool is understandable considering how
let this down a little bit why
considering how how tight it fits in
here I can see why it would start kind
of harsh this is just wide enough rip
farm kind of guest wide enough for this
Intellivision cartridge yeah that is a
tight fit another reason is that
television cartridges have these ridges
here these kind of pins like kind of
helps align it let's try the dry side
this is these cards were not designed
for in television games they were not
designed with these in mind I don't
think which makes sense because NES and
you know Genesis and then that's the
popular stuff so I can see why they
didn't you know what why they why they
accommodate that this really this pad is
really torn up trying to clean this I
think I might dedicate one card to
Intellivision well the cartridges are
clean let's let's see how clean they got
huh well they're certainly cleaner than
they were that is that's a fact I'm not
sure
this one seems to seem to be able to see
right there the kind of edge of the
cleaning actually if I lay this in here
I think I think I know what I'm seeing
nope because it's coming down up there
when you clean it so it is kind of it's
cleaning the this outside edge a little
better I think if I can just rub this a
little hmm we've done it a little better
I wonder if that's just not a kind of a
kind of residual stuff from the fluid I
don't know
seeing a Astra warrior here looks pretty
good Hank Road Rash Road Rash could use
a little more work this side looks okay
looks pretty good but which side I don't
know let's see we're back here just give
myself a little more leverage
Road Rash is pretty bad if I remember
right now I think a lot of this what I'm
seeing is kind of a residual kind of
just kind of residual low fluid spot
right here it's not getting that I don't
know if this can get that in like that
may just be for some pretty heavy
Caribbean yeah it doesn't look like it's
coming off at all it like I said though
I mean it's a lot better than it was and
it certainly wouldn't be playable I
think now see battle television here and
this how did this go so this would be
this would be the part that's hard to
get the the card into the end of the
slot that looks hmm looks pretty good
after review the the dirty footage but
uh that's okay this again it's hard to
tell him this one again I think it might
be better than it was but I don't know
if it's really that great I don't know
this game is thirty years old over 30
years old that's better
here's a tip take the card out to clean
it you can get better leverage on it
again this card is so thin it's flimsy I
think we could probably stand to have
the pads a little thinner to have a
thicker card and that's certainly better
since I can get a better angle on it so
alright so let's try the system cleaning
cartridges okay so we're not supposed to
wet these down we're supposed to use
them dry the card edge it's it's just
kind of kind of rubbery kind of thing
the thin piece of plastic it's very
smooth so I don't think it'll be
scrubbing really I'm not sure so let's
uh get the old girl cleaned up huh
Charlie I just let's just put it in this
tab is really cool because pattern Oh
house if it's kind of tight and yeah you
can pull it out there this that's a pain
so this is cloth tab it's really
invaluable see oh well that is filthy
probably have to take this part and show
you just how filthy it is I don't know
if the camera pick it up so let's let's
keep going
this has been in retirement I haven't
pulled out my Nintendo in Burma a long
time yeah that looks really dirty let's
take this apart and see see what it
looks like inside well one of that Wow
that add dirty it's really I didn't
think it would clean it up quite like
that I mean this this is really smooth
so I didn't think it would quite clean
it up quite like that but it appears in
a pretty good job I think Google I think
it'll I think this works pretty well
so alright let's try the Genesis all
right
again seem some kind of construction
it's a little loose let's try this oh
that's tight fit now obviously this
could also be used on the 32x and 10 on
your Sonic and Knuckles game Oh same
kind of thing just looks just like the
same as on the Nintendo one
mm that's probably good let's take this
one apart to take a look at it I wanted
to take this part and show you what it
looks like inside better but I don't
have the proper bit for this it's not a
large game bit if it is a large game but
I can't get it the one I have to fit in
there and it's not a small game bit so I
don't know oh well you saw the Nintendo
cartridge it looks same it's it's not
sitting in there though no wonder that
is yeah now this came with the Super
Nintendo cleaner one problem is I don't
have different intend of it or not but
one thing I noticed a 1 again the same
material sitting in there nice and solid
like the NES one but you don't hand
these two tabs on the side I know there
are several games that they used the
additional pins on either side of these
but this doesn't have that interesting I
don't know why but I imagine this is
clean about as well as the Genesis and
the NES one don't see why it would be
any different but unfortunately like I
said I don't have a Super Nintendo so I
won't be able to demonstrate that but
like I said I'm sure it works just as
well as any other systems so well
overall what do I think of the 1up card
system I think it's pretty cool actually
it's nice to have something to clean up
these old cartridge games they certainly
work better than q-tips you know I mean
you go through 100 q-tips before
you can do what one of these cards did
now I still have believe it or not a few
cleaning systems from the 90s
this one from nakki is for the Genesis
and this is nice because it's got this
handle and you can just really just get
it in there I can show you
I mean it's there's a lot of leverage
here get it in out it's really nice so
this this is the same kind of material
to that's inside each of these
cartridges it's that smooth kind of
slightly rubbery plastic so it's
basically use the same kind of design as
this as this Eliminator from nakki I
used to have it an NES version but I I
lost it I don't know where it is this
one is from Mad Catz this is supposed to
plug into the the end of a Nintendo
cartridge but it's kind of broke and it
doesn't stay in there like it's supposed
to and then you putted it push it in and
out this kind of broke is kind of a
silly design but the rest of it are
these cards and that this this card is
for the 16-bit stuff and you know the
Super Nintendo Genesis that kind of
thing this is for Game Boy and turbo
graphics 16 of all things it's thicker
than most cards so I haven't used that
it's a little too thick to use on my
systems and I haven't used it on the
Game Boy
I have an official I had I don't know
where it is there now but um I know I
have an official Gameboy cleaner so and
this for the for the 26 for the Atari
2600 7800 I use this for my
Intellivision now the reason I keep
these around is because this is kind of
a rougher cloth it's not the rubbery
stuff that's on here and it does a
pretty good job
it's basically
you know it doesn't matter as you can
see this is this one really used up
looks gross and just it it's wore out
which is one of the reasons why I was
prompted to pick up the 1up card system
so the one up card system is good and it
works really well but I do have issues
with the cards themselves these these
are really thin they've been so easy so
easy that I can't really get good
leverage on them now both of these older
systems that I showed you they come with
these kind of things and you're supposed
to you know let them down and same kind
of thing just put them in there and rub
them back and forth as you can see this
MadCatz one is worn out it came with two
of them they're both like this they're
just the felt the cloth is it it's worn
out coming up hurts when stood this one
from from nakki I hadn't used it as much
but it's it's a similar cloth to what
was on the Mad Catz one and again it's
it's it's going to wear out really
really quite quickly and it's not has
scrubby it's not as uh it doesn't feel
like it'll scrub as well as the pads on
the 1up cards but these are also a lot
tougher a lot stiffer if you feel like
you can get a lot better leverage when
you're scrubbing down your games same
with this one I mean they're they're
essentially identical so I I don't like
how thin these one up guards are I don't
feel I can get a good leverage on them
when I'm cleaning the games these also
aren't a new design now
one up is not claiming that they are a
new and unique design so they're not
they're not they're not falsely
advertising or anything but I've seen
I've owned cards of a very similar
design I think they're from the nakki
aside from Frye remember right there
were pink the cards themselves were much
thicker probably about this thick same
thickness as these game-game wand
cleaning things he felt like he got a
lot better leverage they weren't as
rough they weren't just scrubby as these
pads are but same kind of design you
know you went down one side had a pad on
both sides and you just rub it back and
forth but the car is that those pads
were on were a lot thicker and I felt I
was actually getting somewhere with the
with those these they're too thin I
don't feel I get a good leverage on them
I think they could probably stand to
make the pads a little thinner and
picking up these cards a little or at
the very least make them thicker in
between the pads I don't like how thin
those are now I'd also like to see other
products from one up these are great
they cover all the major systems that
people are collecting for there it's all
the most popular systems and these can
as far as I know clean every game I
don't have an Atari so unfortunately I
could clean try to clean an Atari
cartridge because I know that most of
the Atari cartridges have this cover
that covers the edge connector on the
game I don't know how easy that is to
deal with with these 1up cards but if I
ever get one maybe I'll revisit it but
um but
system they have now it covers all the
major systems all major game systems you
can use it on your retron 5 or any of
the clone systems that you have so it's
a good system I'd like to see more
though I'd like to see something for for
the Intellivision of a cleaning
cartridge for the Intellivision
and the Atari in the ColecoVision I
wouldn't mind seeing something for the
Super Nintendo Super Nintendo the
Gameboy if they made one to clean the
Gameboy you could use that on four
different systems you'd have one for the
original Game Boy Game Boy Color Game
Boy Advance and end the Game Boy Advance
slot on the DS so yeah you could with
one card you could clean four or five
systems so I think that would probably
be a good idea one up wink wink
but should you buy one of these should
you buy all these I think you should
definitely buy these cards despite how
thin they are and how flimsy they are
there's really not a lot there's no new
products on the market I mean yeah you
can you can try to find something like
this you can help but on eBay but good
luck with that and who knows how dirty
it's going to be but if you have old
cartridge games definitely get the 1up
cards if you have any of these three
systems certainly especially if you have
a front-loading NES this this orange
cloth tab really makes it easy to get
the cleaning cartridge out and there's
really no other good way to clean the
systems that the game slots on these
systems other than having a cleaning
cartridge so I mean you can't get a
q-tip in there you know I mean yeah you
could use a credit card wrapped in an
old t-shirt but that
that might be kind of thick so I
recommend this if you've been on the
fence about it I think you should just
pull the trigger and get your old games
up and running and save some money on
q-tips thanks for watching my 1up card
review if you'd like to see more product
reviews click like and leave a comment
and don't forget to subscribe so you can
find out exactly when I release a new
video
[Music]